JUDY WOODRUFF: We turn now to
the second half of our series on
political divisions in unlikely
places.
In May, "NewsHour" producer
Elizabeth Flock wrote about a
group of women in a conservative
West Virginia coal mining town
who spoke out against President
Trump and received backlash
from their neighbors.
Her new piece, out this week,
is an in-depth look at a group
of conservative women trying
to find their voice in a city
known for its progressive
politics, Portland, Oregon.
And Liz joins me now.
Liz, welcome back.
You were in Portland for
several days and just got back.
Why did you choose that city?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: In part, I
chose Portland just because
it was a progressive city, and
I was really interested to see,
what is it like to be a Trump
supporter in such a liberal
place?
But there had also been a
number of recent pro-Trump
rallies even after the election
in Portland and the surrounding
area, and those had ended in
some violent clashes between
the left and the right.
And so I was really interested
to see what was going on there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we
actually covered --
covered some of those.
How did you find these women?
How did you get in touch with
them and how easy was it to
get them to trust you, to talk
to you?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Yes.
Well, I found all of them online
through pro-Trump Facebook
groups, Women for Trump.
It was really hard
to gain their trust.
A lot of them had no
interested in speaking to me.
There is a perception that the
media is very liberal, very
biased, produces fake news.
Some of them said they'd
speak to me and later
made the decision that
they didn't want to.
And one of the women I met in
a public park because she said:
"I'm concerned about meeting
you.
I don't know what you're
going to do when I meet you.
Maybe you will try to hurt me.
I think we should met
in a public place."
So there was a lot of
fear of the media and
how they're portrayed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tell us about
what it's like for them?
What do they go through as they
express their political views?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Well,
they certainly get a lot of
pushback for their beliefs.
And some of them do have more
extreme beliefs, to be certain.
Others hold more moderate
views, but they're all sort of
clumped together as one thing.
They're called racists
and bigots regularly.
And they're attacked online.
They're told that
they should go die.
One woman told me, one day,
when she was walking her dog and
wearing a Trump hat, a man just
stopped to say to her: "Your
kind isn't wanted here.
You should just leave."
And if they go to these
rallies, they face even
more of an extreme reaction.
Many people in Portland, in the
Pacific Northwest come out to
counterprotest these rallies.
And some of them are
more liberal Portlanders
who just want to say,
I don't agree with what
you have to say.
But others are militant leftists
that show up and basically
say, we're unapologetic about
using physical violence
against these Trump supporters.
And, certainly, violence happens
on both sides, but the militant
leftists are very unapologetic
and open about it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I think, for
people who didn't realize
it, it's eye-opening.
One of the women you talked
to, Liz, is transgender.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Yes.
Her name is Athena Brown.
And Athena switched parties
from being a Democrat
to being a Republican
in mid-2016, just before
the election.
She became fed up, she said,
with what she saw as political
correctness on the left and
in the liberal LGBT community.
And she told me: "You know,
when I became - - when I came
out as transgender, I lost
two friends.
When I came out as Republican,
I lost 100 friends on Facebook."
And so she really saw that
as an example of the left's
intolerance to people who do not
share their views.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do
these women keep going?
In that environment, where
they are such a minority,
what keeps them going?
How do they deal with it?
ELIZABETH FLOCK: I think they're
actually invigorated by the
pushback that they're getting.
I think they really feel that
it's worth, it's important to
go out and defend what they
see as an attack on free speech.
And, you know, one of the
interesting things I saw is, as
the left tried to shut down what
they had to say, these Trump
supporters, these women were
more determined to go out and to
speak.
They just wanted to get more
active and became more even
strident in their beliefs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, in a way,
it was a mirror image of the
anti-Trump women you talked to
in conservative West Virginia.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Absolutely.
In both places, I think, as
people tried to shut down what
they had to say, these women
just wanted to speak out louder.
They wanted to get more
involved and more active.
But, in both places, it felt
like people on opposite sides
of the political divide were
not speaking to each other.
They were speaking past each
other, and there was no interest
in really hearing what the
other side had to say.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Discouraging,
but some great reporting.
Liz Flock, thank you very much.
ELIZABETH FLOCK: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you
can find Liz's full
reports on our Web site.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour.